feat: add `includeIgnoreFile()` to `eslint/config` (#20735)
eslint/eslint: docs/src/use/configure/migration-guide.md

]);
```

> _Update (2026-04-13): The `includeIgnoreFile()` from `@eslint/compat` has been deprecated in favor of `includeIgnoreFile()` from `@eslint/config-helpers` (reexported at `eslint/config`). The new API is more versatile and has options to interpret both eslintignore and gitignore files, which are not 100% equivalent, correctly._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Update (2026-05-01): The `includeIgnoreFile()` from `@eslint/compat` has been deprecated in favor of `includeIgnoreFile()` from `@eslint/config-helpers` (reexported at `eslint/config`). [The new API](ignore#include-gitignore-files) is more versatile and has an option to interpret ignore patterns relative to the ignore file._
```

Bumped the date to the next scheduled `eslint` release date (this Friday) and added a link to the docs. Also,
I think it would be confusing to say that .eslintignore and .gitignore files are not equivalent since the only difference is in the interpretation of the base path for the patterns, which depends on the consumer. Otherwise, syntax and semantics of their contents are 100% same.
